President Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has revealed in a call to his own radio show that he is being treated for coronavirus with the same drug cocktail his boss received when he was ill with Covid-19.He was admitted to hospital on Sunday after becoming the latest official close to Mr Trump to test positive.Mr Giuliani, 76, told the show he expects to leave hospital on Wednesday.He has been treated with Remdesivir and Dexamethasone, he explained.Mr Trump tweeted on Sunday that his ally, who has been leading the Trump campaign's legal challenges to the November election outcome, had been diagnosed with the virus."I am doing fine. Pretty much all the symptoms are gone. The minute I took the cocktail I felt 100% better. It works very quickly, wow," he told his colleagues on his weekly show with 77 WABC radio from the Medstar Georgetown University Hospital in Washington DC.Mr Trump has strongly praised the experimental combination of drugs he received when he spent three nights in hospital with Covid-19 in October.Dozens of people in Mr Trump's orbit are said to have tested positive for Covid-19 since October.Mr Giuliani said the president's doctor had urged him to go to hospital where he could "get it [Covid-19] over with in three days".Mr Giuliani's son Andrew tweeted that his dad had "improved significantly" adding "I can't seem to get him off the phone for the last day".Thank you for all the prayers for my Dad. He’s improved significantly over the last 48 hours and continues to get better. I can’t get him off the phone for the last day; the man never stops working! https://t.co/lNn1fJspexReferring to his prior diagnosis of prostate cancer, Rudy Giuliani suggested "You don't screw around your whole life because of an illness. I'd rather face risks than live in a basement my whole life." During the election campaign earlier this year, Mr Trump's campaign attacked his rival Joe Biden for "hiding in his basement" during the pandemic.Mr Giuliani, a former mayor of New York City, had been on a cross-country tour in an effort to convince state governments to overturn the results of the November election vote when he contracted the disease.He had criticised face masks and was frequently pictured at indoor events without a face covering.Last Wednesday, President Trump's lawyer appeared at a hearing on alleged election fraud in Michigan where he asked a witness beside him if she would be comfortable removing her face mask."I don't want you to do this if you feel uncomfortable, but would you be comfortable taking your mask off, so we can hear you more clearly?" said Mr Giuliani, who was not wearing a face mask. The witness chose to keep her mask on after asking the panel if she could be heard.The US has recorded more than 15 million cases so far and 285,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University research, which are both global highs. Many parts of the country are seeing peak infections, with record numbers of people in hospital. Correction: an earlier version of this story wrongly stated that Regeneron made Remdesevir, a drug developed by Gilead.Safety data on Pfizer jab released by USRich countries hoarding Covid vaccines, says People's Vaccine AllianceUS election 2020: What legal challenges remain for Trump?Second Covid vaccine nears US approvalThe analysis by US experts concludes the Moderna jab is safe, clearing the way for approval within days.UK 'about to blunder into major Christmas error'New Uighur cotton evidence 'game-changer' for fashion brandsHow Covid changed our lives - in 12 chartsNew Uighur cotton evidence 'game-changer' for fashion brandsBogus reports, accidental finds - the Oxford vaccine storyNew Covid strain: How worried should we be?My Covid year: Your stories about the pandemic'Don't give up, the storm ends': A message of hope. Video'Don't give up, the storm ends': A message of hope'We'd just begun our careers when the pandemic hit'Newscast: how scary is today's Covid news?The chef whose dim sum with a twist stole the showShe was branded 'The Most Hated Woman In Alaska'A thrilling true crime series following a young mother facing prisonDaily news briefing direct to your inboxSign up for our newsletterLizzo sparks body debate with 10-day smoothie diet1Japan 'Twitter killer' Takahiro Shiraishi sentenced to death2Ghislaine Maxwell: Jeffrey Epstein associate seeks $28.5m bail deal3US election: Putin congratulates Biden after electoral college win4Moderna vaccine safe and effective, say US experts5New Covid strain: How worried should we be?6Hayabusa-2: Pieces of an asteroid found inside space capsule7Barbara Kentner: Brayden Bushby found guilty in death of indigenous woman8Joe Biden says 'time to turn the page' after victory confirmed9SolarWinds Orion: More US government agencies hacked10© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.