Utilizamos cookies, próprios e de terceiros, que o reconhecem e identificam como um usuário único, para garantir a melhor experiência de navegação, personalizar conteúdo e anúncios, e melhorar o desempenho do nosso site e serviços.
Esses Cookies nos permitem coletar alguns dados pessoais sobre você, como sua ID exclusiva atribuída ao seu dispositivo, endereço de IP, tipo de dispositivo e navegador, conteúdos visualizados ou outras ações realizadas usando nossos serviços, país e idioma selecionados, entre outros. Para saber mais sobre nossa política de cookies, acesse link.

Caso não concorde com o uso cookies dessa forma, você deverá ajustar as configurações de seu navegador ou deixar de acessar o nosso site e serviços. Ao continuar com a navegação em nosso site, você aceita o uso de cookies.Quarantine after exposure to someone diagnosed with COVID-19 can be shortened from 14 days to 7 days if people have no symptoms and a negative coronavirus test.By
      
        Dan Vergano

    Last updated on December 2, 2020, at 1:31 p.m. ET
    
    Posted on December 2, 2020, at 11:42 a.m. ET
    The CDC on Wednesday announced that COVID-19 quarantines can be shortened to seven days after negative test results and no symptoms.CDC COVID-19 incident manager Henry Walke said 14 days remains the baseline quarantine recommendation for people exposed to someone diagnosed with the coronavirus. But the shortened time periods — 10 days without symptoms and 7 days with no symptoms and a negative test — are intended to give people more options for returning to work.That negative test should be from a genetic PCR test, not a rapid test, which is more likely to return a false negative if someone is not tested at the peak of their infection.This change does not affect people who have tested positive for COVID-19, who are still required to self-isolate for 10 days.The chances of people spreading illness after these shorter time periods fall into a "sweet spot," for acceptable risks, said Walke. The estimate is a 1% chance of actually turning out to be sick after 10 days without symptoms leading to transmission, and a 5% chance after seven days without symptoms and a negative test."We may get a greater compliance overall with people completing a full quarantine in seven days," he said.Epidemiologist Saskia Popescu, an affiliate of the Georgetown University Center for Global Health Science and Security, suggested on Twitter that the CDC's shift reflected the difficulty of getting people to quarantine for a full two weeks. "Glad to see a movement in this direction," she added, but expressed concern that the CDC's suggestion to test on the fifth day of a seven-day quarantine, for example, might lead to some missed COVID-19 cases.As well as the shift in guidelines, CDC officials on the briefing call urged people to avoid travel this Christmas, citing surging COVID-19 caseloads nationwide.Dan Vergano is a science reporter for BuzzFeed News and is based in Washington, DC.Contact Dan Vergano at dan.vergano@buzzfeed.com.Got a confidential tip? Submit it here.Want to see more stories like this? Become a BuzzFeed News member.OopsLooks like your browser doesn't support JavaScript.