Utilizamos cookies, próprios e de terceiros, que o reconhecem e identificam como um usuário único, para garantir a melhor experiência de navegação, personalizar conteúdo e anúncios, e melhorar o desempenho do nosso site e serviços.
Esses Cookies nos permitem coletar alguns dados pessoais sobre você, como sua ID exclusiva atribuída ao seu dispositivo, endereço de IP, tipo de dispositivo e navegador, conteúdos visualizados ou outras ações realizadas usando nossos serviços, país e idioma selecionados, entre outros. Para saber mais sobre nossa política de cookies, acesse link.

Caso não concorde com o uso cookies dessa forma, você deverá ajustar as configurações de seu navegador ou deixar de acessar o nosso site e serviços. Ao continuar com a navegação em nosso site, você aceita o uso de cookies.How has the coronavirus pandemic affected your job? We want to know.By
      
        Krystie Lee Yandoli

    Posted on December 7, 2020, at 8:16 p.m. ET
    Justin Bieber and Issa Rae filming a promo for Saturday Night Live.
The journalists at BuzzFeed News are proud to bring you trustworthy and relevant reporting about the coronavirus. To help keep this news free, become a member and sign up for our newsletter, Incoming.
        Since March, the coronavirus pandemic has upended our day-to-day lives and impacted every single industry across the world, including entertainment. In an unprecedented move, all TV and film productions came to a complete halt, leaving crew members fearful about losing their income and health insurance, among other uncertainties.When the number of COVID-19 cases went down over the summer, many TV shows and film productions started back up, requiring a whole new set of health guidelines to operate. While people were happy to be back at work, crew members risked contracting the coronavirus on the job — and some did.Now, as the number of COVID-19 cases rise across the country, states like California are locking down and issuing regional stay-at-home orders, putting additional pressure on studios.If you work in TV or film production, BuzzFeed News would like to speak with you about your experience and how you’ve navigated being on set during the pandemic. Please fill out our survey here, or email us directly at krystie.yandoli@buzzfeed.com.Krystie Yandoli is an entertainment reporter for BuzzFeed News and is based in New York.Contact Krystie Lee Yandoli at krystie.yandoli@buzzfeed.com.Got a confidential tip? Submit it here.Want to see more stories like this? Become a BuzzFeed News member.OopsLooks like your browser doesn't support JavaScript.