Utilizamos cookies, próprios e de terceiros, que o reconhecem e identificam como um usuário único, para garantir a melhor experiência de navegação, personalizar conteúdo e anúncios, e melhorar o desempenho do nosso site e serviços.
Esses Cookies nos permitem coletar alguns dados pessoais sobre você, como sua ID exclusiva atribuída ao seu dispositivo, endereço de IP, tipo de dispositivo e navegador, conteúdos visualizados ou outras ações realizadas usando nossos serviços, país e idioma selecionados, entre outros. Para saber mais sobre nossa política de cookies, acesse link.

Caso não concorde com o uso cookies dessa forma, você deverá ajustar as configurações de seu navegador ou deixar de acessar o nosso site e serviços. Ao continuar com a navegação em nosso site, você aceita o uso de cookies.From celebrations of World AIDS Day to the resurgence of the coronavirus, these are some of the most powerful photos of the week.By
      
        Pia Peterson

    Posted on December 4, 2020, at 6:34 p.m. ET
    A woman soldier's goggles are covered with vapor after handling bodies of coronavirus victims, amid the spread of the virus in Kathmandu, Nepal, on November 11, 2020.Dr. Joseph Varon hugs and comforts a patient in the COVID-19 intensive care unit during Thanksgiving at the United Memorial Medical Center on November 26, 2020, in Houston. According to reports, Texas has reached over 1,220,000 cases, including over 21,500 deaths.Medical staff are pictured inside a clinic set by Mercy Corps for Ethiopian refugees who fled the Tigray conflict, at a reception camp in eastern Sudan's Gedaref state on December 3, 2020. More than 45,000 people have escaped from northern Ethiopia since November 4, after Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed ordered military operations against leaders of Tigray's ruling party in response to its alleged attacks on federal army camps.A woman looks at the destruction in Haulover, in the Northern Caribbean Autonomous Region, Nicaragua, on November 28, 2020. The passage of Hurricanes Eta and Iota left at least 200 confirmed dead and as many missing as they smashed homes, uprooted trees, and swamped roads during their destructive advance across several Central American countries.This aerial view shows the damage at the Arecibo Observatory after one of the main cables holding the receiver broke in Arecibo, Puerto Rico, on December 1, 2020. The radio telescope in Puerto Rico, which once appeared in a James Bond film, collapsed Tuesday when its 900-ton receiver platform fell 450 feet and smashed onto the radio dish below.Florence Bolton, 85, who has the coronavirus, lies in her intensive care bed as family members attempt to FaceTime her at Roseland Community Hospital on the South Side of Chicago on December 1, 2020.A child and his grandmother wait for Vice President Mike Pence at a rally in support of Republican Sens. David Perdue and Kelly Loeffler on December 4, 2020, in Savannah, Georgia. The Defend the Majority Rally with the senators comes ahead of a crucial runoff election for Perdue and Loeffler on January 5 that will decide who controls the United States senate.Tigray people who fled the conflict in Ethiopia's Tigray region stand atop a hill overlooking a refugee camp in eastern Sudan on Nov. 26, 2020. Ethiopia's prime minister said Thursday that the army had been ordered to move on the embattled Tigray regional capital after his 72-hour ultimatum ended for Tigray leaders to surrender, and he warned the city's half-million residents to stay indoors and disarm.US President-elect Joe Biden wears a boot on December 1, 2020 after he twisted his ankle while playing with his dog in Wilmington. Biden announced his economic team at the Queen Theater in Wilmington, Delaware, on December 1, 2020.A rescue mission worker inspects an opening where artisanal miners are trapped on December 2, 2020, in Bindura, Zimbabwe. At least 10 people were trapped when the shaft of an artisanal gold mine collapsed here last week. Rescue efforts were slowed by rain and only one body had been retrieved by Monday. A group representing small-scale miners estimated as many as 40 people were trapped, but determining the real number is difficult due to the informal nature of artisanal mining.Pro-democracy activists Joshua Wong and Ivan Lam board a Hong Kong Correctional Service van ahead of a sentencing hearing on December 2, 2020, in Hong Kong. Wong, Lam, and Agnes Chow were to be sentenced over a protest that took place outside the police headquarters in 2019.Nate Robinson suffers a knockout against Jake Paul in the second round in the co-featured bout of the Mike Tyson vs. Roy Jones Jr. fight presented by Triller at Staples Center on November 28, 2020, in Los Angeles.A Kashmiri woman walks past bundles of twigs that are used to make "Kangris," traditional fire pots made of clay and twigs in which hot charcoal is kept, on November 26, 2020.In this image taken with a slow shutter speed, early-morning traffic leaves streaks of light as it passes the Naples Barn, an antique and gift shop outlined with holiday lights in Naples, Maine. Brick and mortar stores competed over the holidays for shoppers on Cyber Monday.A young Newar girl in a colorful costume and mask waits for an Ihi ceremony in Kathmandu, Nepal, on Dec. 4, 2020. Ihi is a two-day ceremony performed for girls who have not reached puberty and involves purification rituals and marriage rituals with the Bael (or wood apple). Newari girls are married thrice in their life, to the bael fruit and the sun before marrying a human.A red ribbon is displayed on the North Portico of the White House to recognize World AIDS Day on December 1, 2020.US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris and her husband, Doug Emhoff, hold a "Madam Vice President" T-shirt being sold at the Downtown Holiday Market in Washington on November 28, 2020.Randy Stuchlik embraces his neighbor's horse as he and firefighters from the Orange County Fire Authority try to get the animal, which had lain down and was likely dehydrated after the owners evacuated, back on its feet to evacuate it during the Bond Fire in California, December 3, 2020.Pia Peterson is a photo editor at BuzzFeed News, and is based in Brooklyn.Contact Pia Peterson at pia.peterson@buzzfeed.com.Got a confidential tip? Submit it here.Want to see more stories like this? Become a BuzzFeed News member.OopsLooks like your browser doesn't support JavaScript.