SectionsTVFeaturedMore from NBC Follow NBC News The United States has broken another daily record for coronavirus deaths, registering more than 3,100 Covid-19-related fatalities on Wednesday, according to an NBC News tally.Also on Wednesday, the U.S. reported 222,994 coronavirus cases — more than it had ever seen before in a single day.More than 290,000 people have died from the virus across the country since the beginning of the pandemic.As at least 15 U.S. states step up their own efforts to encourage people to take a Covid-19 vaccine, countries across the world are hurtling ahead with unprecedented plans to vaccinate millions of vulnerable adults and frontline healthcare workers.Janelle GriffithStephanie Lynn Smith and Jamie Bassett were looking forward to getting married Nov. 13.They had planned for Smith's older brother to officiate the wedding in front of their parents at a scaled-down ceremony in a field in Lubbock, Texas, where Bassett had proposed. Bassett said they had favored the location, which he believes is an abandoned golf course.But the couple did not marry. Smith spent her wedding day in a hospital where she had tested positive for the coronavirus and was diagnosed with pneumonia. Five days later, he and Smith's family would rush to the hospital, only to learn that she had died. She was 29.Click here to read the full storyJoe MurphyColorado reported 149 Covid-19 deaths Wednesday, a new record amid surging case and death counts nationwide.The country set records for cases and and deaths Wednesday, according to NBC News' count.These states also set records Wednesday:The Associated PressJACKSON, Miss. — Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves is defending his decision to hold Christmas parties at the Governor’s Mansion after repeatedly warning people to avoid social gatherings as coronavirus cases surge in the state.Reeves said Wednesday that he has invited family, friends and state officials to the multiple parties, but he expects many will choose not to attend.The governor has often told people not to host gatherings as the virus spreads. He issued a new executive order Wednesday that restricts social gatherings statewide to 10 people indoors and 50 outdoors when social distancing is not possible and has issued a mask mandate for all Mississippi schools and for 61 out of 82 counties with the highest number of new coronavirus cases.Elizabeth ChuckDrugmaker Moderna announced on Thursday that it had begun testing its coronavirus vaccine on healthy adolescents between the ages of 12 and 17. The goal, Moderna said in a press release, was to generate enough data on the safety and efficacy of the shot in such children to be able to administer the vaccine to more adolescents "in advance of the 2021 school year.” Initial data on participants ages 18 and older was encouraging, the company added."We hope we will be able to provide a safe vaccine to provide protection to adolescents so they can return to school in a normal setting,” it said. Vaccines cannot be distributed to children until their age group has been studied in trials. So far, the only other drugmaker to include children in its U.S. trials is Pfizer.The Associated PressTOKYO — The number of new coronavirus infections in Japan’s capital have topped 600 in a day for the first time.Experts on Tokyo’s virus task force say the surge in infections has placed an added burden on hospitals, making it difficult for many of them to carry out treatment for ordinary patients.Tokyo reported 602 new cases Thursday, while the daily tally for the entire nation was 2,810. Japan has reported 168,573 infections since the pandemic began, with 2,465 deaths.Tokyo Gov. Yuriko Koike is urging residents to avoid non-essential outings, especially senior citizens and their families. Tokyo has issued a request for drinking places to close early until Dec. 17.The Associated PressBERLIN — Germany has reported its highest one-day total of new coronavirus cases, while the number of deaths linked to COVID-19 has climbed above 20,000.The national disease control center, the Robert Koch Institute, said Thursday that 23,679 new cases were confirmed over the previous 24 hours. That’s just above the previous record of 23,648 from Nov. 20.A partial shutdown that started Nov. 2 has succeeded in keeping the surge from picking up speed, but the number of daily new cases have remained around the same high level in recent weeks rather than falling. Momentum is building for a harder lockdown over Christmas and New Year, and some regions already are introducing new restrictions.That’s partly because deaths, which have been relatively low in Germany compared with several other European countries, have increased markedly. Another 440 deaths were reported on Thursday, following a single-day record of 590 on Wednesday.That brought the total so far to 20,372. Germany has reported some 1.24 million coronavirus cases since the pandemic began.Austin MullenFor the first time, more than 3,000 Covid-related deaths were recorded across the country Wednesday, according to an NBC News tally. The previous single-day record was set April 22, when 2,861 deaths were reported.More than 290,000 people have died from the coronavirus across the United States since the beginning of the pandemic this spring.  As of Thursday, in the past week, the U.S. has averaged 208,179 cases per day and 2,307 deaths per day. That's up from 161,158 cases and 1,213 deaths per day four weeks ago.© 2020 NBC UNIVERSAL