Six coronavirus patients have died in a hospital in Pakistan after oxygen supplies ran too low. Patients' relatives have described how they begged for help as panic engulfed the government-run hospital in the northern city of Peshawar.A delay in deliveries meant more than 200 patients were left for hours on reduced oxygen.Hospital officials have blamed the shortage on the supply company but several staff have been suspended. Pakistan is currently fighting a new wave of coronavirus cases, with a total of more then 400,000 infections and over 8,000 deaths reported since the start of the outbreak. According to local media, the problems at Khyber Teaching Hospital began after the daily supply of fresh oxygen cylinders did not arrive on Saturday evening. The 300 backup cylinders were then unable to supply the required pressure for the ventilators. Mureed Ali, whose mother is ill with Covid-19, told BBC Urdu that "throughout the hospital, we were running to save our patients, begging the medical staff".He explained that some patients were eventually moved to the emergency room, where there was still a good oxygen supply. But after those supplies ran low as well, several patients died, while many others deteriorated into critical condition. Hospital staff eventually asked the patients' relatives to try to buy oxygen cylinders themselves, according to Mr Ali, but only some managed to do so.A spokesman of the government-run hospital told the BBC that five of the dead were patients in the coronavirus ward and one in the intensive care unit. Officials say all of the dead were adults.By 04:00 local time (23:00 GMT) on Sunday, the delayed official oxygen supply finally arrived at the hospital. Hospital officials described the shortage as "criminal negligence".An inquiry found staff meant to be on duty at the hospitals' oxygen plant were not present at the time, and that the oxygen tank on site would routinely only be partially filled. The director of the hospital and several other staff have already been suspended. Covid: Pakistan cricket squad quarantined after positive tests in New ZealandCoronavirus in South Asia: Which countries have rising numbers?Coronavirus: Has the pandemic really peaked in India?US drug experts recommend Pfizer vaccine approvalA panel of advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration deem the vaccine safe and effective.'Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PMCasey Goodson: Family demand justice for shootingObituary: Barbara WindsorBrexit trade deal now looking remoteHow everyday life has changed in Wuhan. VideoHow everyday life has changed in WuhanLenny Henry writes TV drama inspired by motherBrexitcast: ‘Get ready for no-deal’Unlikely friendships forged through CovidGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't' VideoGrief: 'Everything looks the same, but it isn't'The mask-wearing city that bucked the trendThe Syrians used as 'cannon fodder' in Nagorno-KarabakhWinter in Iceland turns even more chilling...The past comes back to haunt them in The Valhalla MurdersDaily news briefing direct to your inboxSign up for our newsletterBrandon Bernard: First execution of Trump's final days to go ahead1Coronavirus: Trump hosts Hanukkah events as Covid-19 deaths soar2In Trump’s final days, a rush of federal executions3Pornhub: Mastercard severs links with pornography site4Dame Barbara Windsor: Carry On and EastEnders actress dies aged 835Brexit: 'Strong possibility' of no trade deal with EU - PM6Covid vaccine: US experts recommend Pfizer vaccine approval7Morocco latest country to normalise ties with Israel in US-brokered deal8Covid-19: The mask-wearing US city that bucked the trend9TV Host Ellen DeGeneres tests positive for Covid-1910© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.