President Donald Trump's personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has revealed in a call to his own radio show that he is being treated for coronavirus with the same drug cocktail his boss received when he was ill with Covid-19.He was admitted to hospital on Sunday after becoming the latest official close to Mr Trump to test positive.Mr Giuliani, 76, told the show he expects to leave hospital on Wednesday.He has been treated with Remdesivir and Dexamethasone, he explained.Mr Trump tweeted on Sunday that his ally, who has been leading the Trump campaign's legal challenges to the November election outcome, had been diagnosed with the virus."I am doing fine. Pretty much all the symptoms are gone. The minute I took the cocktail I felt 100% better. It works very quickly, wow," he told his colleagues on his weekly show with 77 WABC radio from the Medstar Georgetown University Hospital in Washington DC.Mr Trump has strongly praised the experimental combination of drugs he received when he spent three nights in hospital with Covid-19 in October.Dozens of people in Mr Trump's orbit are said to have tested positive for Covid-19 since October.Mr Giuliani said the president's doctor had urged him to go to hospital where he could "get it [Covid-19] over with in three days".Mr Giuliani's son Andrew tweeted that his dad had "improved significantly" adding "I can't seem to get him off the phone for the last day".Thank you for all the prayers for my Dad. He’s improved significantly over the last 48 hours and continues to get better. I can’t get him off the phone for the last day; the man never stops working! https://t.co/lNn1fJspexReferring to his prior diagnosis of prostate cancer, Rudy Giuliani suggested "You don't screw around your whole life because of an illness. I'd rather face risks than live in a basement my whole life." During the election campaign earlier this year, Mr Trump's campaign attacked his rival Joe Biden for "hiding in his basement" during the pandemic.Mr Giuliani, a former mayor of New York City, had been on a cross-country tour in an effort to convince state governments to overturn the results of the November election vote when he contracted the disease.He had criticised face masks and was frequently pictured at indoor events without a face covering.Last Wednesday, President Trump's lawyer appeared at a hearing on alleged election fraud in Michigan where he asked a witness beside him if she would be comfortable removing her face mask."I don't want you to do this if you feel uncomfortable, but would you be comfortable taking your mask off, so we can hear you more clearly?" said Mr Giuliani, who was not wearing a face mask. The witness chose to keep her mask on after asking the panel if she could be heard.The US has recorded more than 15 million cases so far and 285,000 deaths, according to Johns Hopkins University research, which are both global highs. Many parts of the country are seeing peak infections, with record numbers of people in hospital. Correction: an earlier version of this story wrongly stated that Regeneron made Remdesevir, a drug developed by Gilead.Safety data on Pfizer jab released by USRich countries hoarding Covid vaccines, says People's Vaccine AllianceUS election 2020: What legal challenges remain for Trump?‘Healing is coming’ says US nurse getting vaccineThe first dose was given in New York, kicking off the largest vaccination drive in US history.'New variant' of coronavirus identified - Hancockplay'Taken from our parents... our identities erased' Video'Taken from our parents... our identities erased'Bogus reports, accidental finds - the Oxford vaccine storyContact tracer: 'People threaten us and block our calls'How fact met fiction in Le Carré's secret worldTentative progress made as EU hints at concessionsBrexit trade talks leave firms 'utterly confused’Seeing my family at Christmas 'not worth the risk'The 'unsanitised' stories behind pioneering feministsThe surprise Christmas show for an audience of oneHow clean is the air in your office?From the covers of Vogue to setting up MalaikaNoella Coursaris Musunka shares her inspirational storyDaily news briefing direct to your inboxSign up for our newsletter'New variant' of coronavirus identified - Hancock1Electoral college begins casting votes that will cement Biden victory2Pornhub removes all user-uploaded videos amid legality row3Covid-19: Trump rejects plan for early vaccines at White House4Jesy Nelson leaves Little Mix: 'The constant pressure is very hard'5Google outage: YouTube, Docs and Gmail knocked offline6Covid-19: First vaccine given in US as roll-out begins7New York cathedral gunman shot dead by police8Alexei Navalny: Report names 'Russian agents' in poisoning case9Australia storms: Byron Bay's Main Beach 'all but disappeared'10© 2020 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.